Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
So, in the last lecture, we learned what wireframing is,
and hopefully you remember what that is.
You don't remember? Well, they're visual mockups of a
potential web site, mobile app, or even just a feature,
and they're these things that we sketch out, and they
look like wires, and we do them because it helps
us communicate the vision of the product,
it helps us make sure that everyone's on the same page,
and it allows us to get feedback internally and from potential users. But how do you start wireframing?
Let's say you wanted to make a wireframe.
How would you actually start?
Do you need thousands of dollars of software?
No.
Do you need thousands of dollars of equipment?
No, actually you don't.
The easiest way to start wireframing is available to
literally anyone, and it's a lot more simple than
you think, it's literally just pen and paper.
That's what we do.
I'm not actually joking. When product managers,
when UX specialists, graphic designers, project managers,
you name it, when they want to start and actually draft out
their first wireframe, they reach for a piece,
a pencil or pen and paper.
Google does this, they sketch. Microsoft, they do it as well,
they sketch. Facebook does the same thing.
Pretty much everyone starts by drawing it out.
Now, why is that?
Well, because when we start wireframing,
the idea here is that we want to do it very quickly.
It's supposed to be a rapid task.
We don't want it to take a lot of time.
We don't want people to think it's real, or think that
it's well-defined, or something that we've been
working on for a long period of time.
We also really don't want to get attached to it.
So when you write it out on paper, you're more likely
to be able to let it go and throw it away if you
need to pivot or try something else.
At this stage of the game, your idea is the loosest,
it's the least defined, and we want to stay flexible,
so we use something that's very temporary.
So, you guys at home, grab a pen or pencil and a piece of paper
and let's draw some wireframes. Can't draw?
Well, guess what? Neither can I.
I've never been able to draw anything more
complicated than a stick figure. True story.
So we're standing here, looking at a blank sheet of paper.
We know what wireframes look like, right?
We also know what websites look like, but that doesn't stop us
from getting this kind of "deer in the headlights" effect.
The possibilities are almost too infinite. What do I even start with?
Don't worry, I'm going to walk you through a bulletproof
way of getting out of that first kind of analysis
paralysis, and it's really quite easy.
So, ask yourself a question. What is something that, no matter
what you draw, you're going to have to actually
put down on the paper? If you guessed "browser",
you are correct. So, actually, let's just draw out a browser,
because that will help us get something on
the paper, and all of a sudden the paper just went from this big
to a very smaller section, much more manageable.
So draw out your browser.
You guys can pick whatever browser you want.
I'm going to pick Chrome and I'm going to put the
three little colored dots in the top left corner, put
some tabs, and put, you know, a search box, and
pretty much everything else you see on Chrome.
Doesn't it feel all of a sudden kind of less overwhelming?
I've been doing this for years and, for some reason, I always,
it always feels better after I draw the browser.
So, again. Now what do we do?
We have a browser, but we have to put stuff inside the browser.
Well, what's another thing that you probably
will have to draw out regardless?
Well, I'll give you a hint.
Most web sites are going to have a logo of some sort,
and they're probably going to have a navigation bar.
So draw those out.
Just put the logo in the top left corner, in the top right corner,
and draw the old navigation bar. In the
navigation bar, you can say, like, one of them is Home,
and then just leave empty spaces for other things.
Now, I know this is a little traditional, a lot of web sites now
don't have navigation bars, or they're floating
text, but for the most part, we all have some form of this.
All right, so it's starting to look like something.
Now, at this point, you just need to close your eyes
and try to envision what you imagine it looking like.
Open your eyes, look back at the wireframe,
and you probably still don't have any idea.
So we're going to move on to the next thing.
All right, the next thing you need to do, and this is
probably something you've answered in your head,
but you haven't yet written it out or consciously done this,
is write out the question and answer the
question "What is the point of this page?"
"Why are users on this page?"
"What is their goal and what do you think
their outcome of being here is?"
Try not to over think this, write it out in the simplest way you can. It's probably going to be something along
the lines of "It's going to be to let users do something,
something, something." Alright, so that was easy, so let's move
on to the next exercise. Write out
"Users should be able to do..." and answer that question
to yourself. Once you figure this part out, you're
pretty much halfway there.
So try to think about what are all the things that
your users should be able to do on this page.
It's different than the primary function of the page,
which is the main point of why they're there, but
there are also secondary things
they should be able to do. Let's call these functions
and write them out. Don't worry if you miss something,
you're always going to miss something and later it'll come to you.
These are sketches, they're not supposed
to be taken that seriously.
All right.
So let's say that we're building a page that shows users
a lot of different videos that they can watch.
So let's the answer the question. What's the actual point of that?
Well, the point of that would be to let users see a
thumbnail of all of the available videos, such that
they can choose which video they want to watch.
So I would just draw that out. I'm just going to draw some boxes
and say it's video. I'm going to put video, video,
video on it, and that satisfies the first question.
I now have established visually what the point of
the page is. Then move on to the next one, function one.
What was the first function? Well, let's just take a guess.
I would guess that maybe users need to like certain videos,
and some way of communicating that, you know, they like it.
So let's draw little hearts onto the bottoms of the thumbnails.
All right, good, so let's check off that function.
Now, let's do function number two.
Let's say users probably should be able to search.
They should probably be able to search that list, it shouldn't just be a random list that they don't get to curate or play with.
So let's put a search box.
It's really simple, it's just an oval with a little symbol in the middle.
Great, we satisfied function number two. Function number three,
let's say that we need to add pagination, as in there can
be a lot of search results, so we probably assume
users might look at page 2, and page 3, and page 4, decide
how many of the thumbnails to display on a page.
So I'll put up at the top right,
same way that you see it on all web sites,
"Show," you know, "10 results, 20 results, or 30 results, etc."
Now, if you get stuck at any point in this, you're thinking
"My familiarity with the web or mobile is just not
good enough to do this,"
my suggestion is to always just hop online and start playing
around with some major web sites. Go to the web
sites that you go to all the time, play around for a
long enough time, and you'll probably run into a
function or a page that has similarities, that will get the creative juices going, and a lot of times you can just outright copy them.
If that doesn't seem to work for you, try to think
really hard of a web site that you know of that has
the same solution or problem that you're trying to solve.
And if you can think of that, then maybe you can find a web site that might have that function. And worst case scenario,
I would just go to my favorite web site, Dribbble,
D-R-I-B-B-B-L-E.com, and it's just a web site where
graphic designers put up really good designs of web layouts,
buttons, forms, everything, and it just kind
of helps you get in a creative mood, reminds you what
good web pages or simple web pages should look like.
So, now that you know the process, I need to instill
one last thing in your head, this is the most important
thing you need to know as a product manager
doing wireframes, and that is: it's function, not form.
Okay?
You are not the UX person, you're not the designer,
even as an entrepreneur, no one is going to judge
you because the user flow of your website is a little off,
or you sketched out something that doesn't
have a comparable and it might look weird, that's not the point.
The point is to get the function on the page,
the form is something that someone else will figure out later.
Alright guys, in the next lecture, I'm going to practice
in front of you, making more sketches. If you don't
want that, skip on to the next lecture, where we'll talk about POP.
All right. See you then.